# Driving Innersource with Code as Data 

**Updates**:  https://github.com/src-d/conferences/issues/103

**Sent on**:  TBA

**Status**:   on preparation

**Author**:   Francesc Campoy

**Slides**:   TBA

**Proposal**: TBA

**Abstract**:

You might have heard about Innersource, the movement that aims to bring the best of Open Source
development to organizations working behind closed doors. This movement, whose name was coined by
Tim O'Reilly back in 2000, has become a common digital transformation for many organizations dealing
with very large codebases, such as banks and telecom companies. 

Unfortunately, driving collaboration across silos in a company, one of the principal tenets of
innersource, is far from being an easy task. And even after identifying some initiatives that could
drive cross-team collaboration, monitoring their effectiveness also requires tooling that is not
always available.

Happily for all innersource supporters, a new field of research has recently appeared that can help
monitor the effect of these collaborative initiatives and even help to identify them! The field is
Code as Data, which proposes considering source code repositories as the rich source of information
they are.

This talk will show how we can identify collaboration initiatives and monitor their effectiveness
by analyzing the code generated by an organization. We'll talk about developer classification,
code duplication analysis, and other techniques which can help you drive innersource at any
organization while making better-informed decisions.

**Notes**:

